
# Assignment 1 execution guide
This README provides the execution instructions of the assignment including Docker setup, script execution and the retrieval of the output files. 

Overview:
Python scripts running in a Docker container are used for a variety of data processing and analysis tasks in this project. 
The tasks include data loading, data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis (EDA), visualization, and modeling using K-means clustering.


1- Inside the bd-a1/ directory, the Dockerfile got created:

# Specifing the base image as Ubuntu
FROM ubuntu:latest

# Installing required packages
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
    python3 \
    python3-pip \
    && apt-get clean \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

# Installing Python packages
RUN pip3 install pandas numpy seaborn matplotlib scikit-learn scipy

# Creating a directory inside the container
RUN mkdir -p /home/doc-bd-a1/

# Copying the dataset to the container
COPY dataset.csv /home/doc-bd-a1/

# Opening the bash shell once the container starts
CMD ["/bin/bash"]
//////////////////////

Building and Running the Docker Container
Execute the following Docker commands to build the Docker image and run the container:

# Build the Docker image
docker build -t bd-a1 .

# Run the Docker container
docker run -it --

//////////////////////

Python files:

load.py: This python file is created to dynamically read a dataset file by accepting the dataset path as an input from the user.

////////////////////
dpre.py: 

This script performs Data Cleaning, Data Transformation, Data Reduction, and Data Discretization steps on the dataset taken from the user in load.py.

Tasks performed in this python file are:

1-Data Cleaning:
Handling missing values.
Removing duplicates.

2-Data Transformation:
Min-max scaling of numerical features.
Encoding categorical variables.

3-Data Reduction:
Dropping useless columns
Dimensionality reduction using PCA.


4-Data Discretization:
Equal-width binning
Quantile binning 


Executing the dpre.py script to perform data preprocessing tasks. This script will generate a new CSV file named res_dpre.csv containing the processed data:

python3 dpre.py

/////////////////
eda.py: 

Insights executed in this file are :

Summary statistics of the data variables.
Computing the count of unique values of key variables. 
Correlation analysis between features.


Running the eda.py script to make the exploratory data analysis and generate insights. Text files (eda-in-1.txt, eda-in-2.txt,eda-in-3.txt,eda-in-4.txt ) containing the 4 insights created in each text file:

python3 eda.py

//////////////////
vis.py: 

Visualization made in this file is:
A scatter plot 

Executing the vis.py script to create a visualization. The resulting visualization will be saved as vis.png:

python3 vis.py

////////////////////

model.py: Running the model.py script to implement the K-means algorithm on the data. The number of records in each cluster will be saved in a text file called k.txt that will be generated by running model.py:

python3 model.py

///////////////////
We made the python files outside the container so we needed to copy them inside the container using:
docker cp C:\Users\ELKHOLY\bd-a1\load.py 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/
docker cp C:\Users\ELKHOLY\bd-a1\dpre.py 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/
docker cp C:\Users\ELKHOLY\bd-a1\eda.py 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/
docker cp C:\Users\ELKHOLY\bd-a1\vis.py 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/
docker cp C:\Users\ELKHOLY\bd-a1\model.py 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/



After copying the python filed inside the container we found that the files doesn't exectue inside the container so we used the following commands to make them execute in the container:

docker exec -it 5495549b6255 bash
python3 model.py

After executing the scripts inside the container, the following script is to copy the generated output files to the local machine:
#!/bin/bash
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/res_dpre.csv C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/eda-in-1.txt C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/eda-in-2.txt C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/eda-in-3.txt C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/eda-in-4.txt C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/k.txt C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker cp 5495549b6255:/home/doc-bd-a1/vis.png C:/Users/ELKHOLY/bd-a1/service-result
docker stop 5495549b6255
./final.sh














